---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Insights and takeaways from the alumni panel event.
categories: [misc]
title: Alumni Panel
---

# Takeaways
From today's alumni panel event, I learned about the significance and prevalence of computer science. The skills learned in AP CSA and AP CSP are very applicable and can be used to solve real world problems. However, programmers face many difficulties in their coding career. For instance, Colin described about the constant error messages that are bound to show up while coding, which can leave a negative effect and greatly decrease motivation. One thing that really struck out to me, however, was the importance of **google**. Basically, any programming question you have can be solved by this very magical tool. Furthermore, PBLs not only occur in this class, but can also be found in colleges. For instance, Colin mentioned that in UCSD's mechanical engineering, students will be tasked with a hands on project in their freshmen and senior year. The same methodologies still apply - scrum team and agile. Furthermore, not only is coding applied in CS majors, it is also used in other majors. For instance, Allison mentioned that stats majors are also required to program in R. A really cool example of where you could apply your coding knowledge was **scripting**. If you're ever frustrated at repeating the same redundant tasks over and over again, hey- maybe try some automation :). Last but not least, a very important part of the event was the discussion of internships. Some tips that were brought up was to build a resume and to create some personal projects that demonstrate your passion for coding. Additionally, interaction with professors and TAs are a good idea to find research and programming opportunities. 

<br>

# Notes that I took during the event

# Challenge with compsci:
* Error msg -> keep motivation?
* GOOGLE
* Ego: People brag about internship
	- Focus on own path
	- Work on own project
* Learn computer theory in college (it's different from high school programming)
* Motivation: There's always someone better than you
* Don't cut corner: Have a mindset to go above and beyond
* Getting started
    - There is no rigid structure telling you what to do 
    - Don't get restricted by your plan - be flexible

# Any PBL scenario in college?
* UCSD mechanical engineering: 1 hands on project freshman and senior year
    - Need to use scrum and agile flow
* Study in group and work with other people
* Learn what's the best method to study

# Have you applied CS in your major if your major is not CS?
* Convert data type, copy paste, manually -> write script!! ;)
* Matlab for mechanical student
* Problem solving logic, working with Matlab
* Jupyter notebook for technical paper
* Stats majors: Program in R

# Existing college students, have you had a job with school/professor
* Make a resume, talk with other students, find a way to stand out, what makes you unique?
* Interact with a professor, ask if they have space in their labs
* Interact with TAs

## Job/internships
* Code Ninjas
* Northrop Grumman 


# Personal projects?
* Companies look for personal projects
* Have 2 or 3?
* Visual projects are great

# Internships:
* Have a resume
* Know when to apply to internships, companies hire in September + November **the year** before the next summer