---
toc: true
layout: post
description: 
categories: [js]
title: Fetch API
comments: true
---

Below is a documentation of me learning about APIs. 

## What is an API? 
An API allows a developer to obtain data from web services. 

## What is Fetch API?
Fetch enables the user to make HTTP requests to servers. The Fetch API includes the `fetch()` method, which can take in two parameters, the URL and options. 

`fetch()` returns a `promise` that can be used with the `then()` and `catch()` methods. 

Once the request finishes, `promise` will resolve into a `Response` object.

`Response` is an <mark>API wrapper</mark> for what was fetched.

Now, what is an API wrapper?  

To understand this, a helpful website first explained what a wrapper is. Basically, a wrapper helps make an item simpler by "wrapping" over the item. For instance, it can use abstraction to help simplify code. It can also convert data to make it more compatible. 

Thus, an API wrapper allows you to combine many API calls into one to make things simpler. 

<br>

Alright, where was I? Right, `Response`. 

Feel like showing the response? Below is an example of reading the response if it is in raw text. (Don't really understand it at the moment, will research more about it later)

```
fetch('/readme.txt')
    .then(response => response.text())
    .then(data => console.log(data));
```

Question: Is `/readme.txt` the URL? It looks like a file... Can a file be a URL?

I'm guessing `/readme.txt` is the URL to the README file. 

<br>

You can also see the status code using the `Response` object. This can be accessed with the `status` property (`response.status`). 

Quick lesson on status codes:

* `200` is the status code you want, it means that the request was successful. 
* `404` means that what was requested does not exist
* `500` means that there is a server error
* 


# Misc

Quick definition about entity: In programming, an entity is an object, which means it can include attributes and methods. 

allows access to the API through a specific programming language.



<table>
  <thead>
  <tr>
    <th>IATA Code</th>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>ICAO Code</th>
  </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody id="result">
    <!-- generated rows -->
  </tbody>
</table>

<!--Script is layed out in a sequence (no function) and will execute when page is loaded-->
<script>


  // prepare HTML result container for new output
  const resultContainer = document.getElementById("result");

  // prepare fetch options
  const url = "https://iata-and-icao-codes.p.rapidapi.com/airlines";


const options = {
	method: 'GET',
	headers: {
		'X-RapidAPI-Key': 'cc6d770f58msh120c53d95d27c68p1d2955jsn1898ff4fa031',
		'X-RapidAPI-Host': 'iata-and-icao-codes.p.rapidapi.com'
	}
};

fetch('https://iata-and-icao-codes.p.rapidapi.com/airlines', options)
	.then(response => response.json())
	.then(response => console.log(response))
	.catch(err => console.error(err));

  // fetch the API
  fetch(url, options)
    // response is a RESTful "promise" on any successful fetch
    .then(response => {
      // check for response errors
      if (response.status !== 200) {
          const errorMsg = 'Database response error: ' + response.status;
          console.log(errorMsg);
          const tr = document.createElement("tr");
          const td = document.createElement("td");
          td.innerHTML = errorMsg;
          tr.appendChild(td);
          resultContainer.appendChild(tr);
          return;
      }
      // valid response will have json data
      response.json().then(data => {
          console.log(data);

          

          // Country data
          for (const row of data) {
            console.log(row);

            // tr for each row
            const tr = document.createElement("tr");
            // td for each column
            const name = document.createElement("td");
            const cases = document.createElement("td");
            const deaths = document.createElement("td");
            const active = document.createElement("td");

            // data is specific to the API
            name.innerHTML = row.iata_code;
            cases.innerHTML = row.name; 
            deaths.innerHTML = row.icao_code; 

            // this build td's into tr
            tr.appendChild(name);
            tr.appendChild(cases);
            tr.appendChild(deaths);

            // add HTML to container
            resultContainer.appendChild(tr);
          }
      })
  })
  // catch fetch errors (ie ACCESS to server blocked)
  .catch(err => {
    console.error(err);
    const tr = document.createElement("tr");
    const td = document.createElement("td");
    td.innerHTML = err;
    tr.appendChild(td);
    resultContainer.appendChild(tr);
  });

</script>