---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Psychology and the Good Life video.
categories: [misc]
title: Thoughts from the video
comments: true
---

Problem: 
* Many students are so stressed from academics that it is hard to also to have some time to just relax and have fun. 

* It becomes hard to focus on so many opportunities that surround us 

* Depression, anxiety, stress, etc. 

Solution (how to feel less stressed):

* Positive psychology: What is the secret to be happy? 

* Behavior change: How we form habits and create choices? How do we change our behavior to become better?
- How we become happier over time

**How to become happier**

* Take time to feel gratitude 
* Socialize
* Be mindful
* Exercise 
* Sleep 

**10 insights**

1. We can control our happiness 
2. Things in life don't matter as much as we think
3. It takes effort to be happy

Repetition, repetition, repetition
4. Your mind is lying to you about what it means to be happy

Ex: The assumption that more money makes you happier. -> The more money you have, the more likely you'll want more. 

5. Socialize 
6. Help others
7. Be grateful

Jot down what you are grateful for. 
8. Exercise, sleep sleep sleep sleep sleep
9. Pay attention to what you're doing, focus on the small, happy things in life
10. Be wealthy in time, not necessarily in money


Gratitude:
School: I'm grateful for all of my friends in school. They help make going to school everyday fun and something to look forward to. I know that if I ever need help, I can count on them, and for that, I am thankful. 

Home: I'm thankful to my parents for supporting me, especially when at times, high school is hard and makes me more stressed (haha, like what this whole blog post is aimed to resolve). I'd like to give a special shoutout to my mom, because even though sometimes I can get a little frustrated, I know she wants the best for me and I really appreciate all of what she has done for me.

Additional things I'm grateful for: 
* The fantastic shrimp and mooncake I just ate
* Reading on a rainy day 
* Walking outside to relax
* The small things in life :)

<br>

Goals: 
* Think about what I am grateful for more often
* Practice some of the insights noted above when I feel stressed
* Sleep at least eight hours everyday 
* Maintain a work life balance