---
toc: true
layout: post
description: 
categories: [misc]
title: 5.3-5.6 Blog
comments: true
---

## 5.3

Different social media platforms are focused towards different age groups. For instance, Facebook is more oriented towards older people while TikTok is focused towards younger age groups. Therefore, content may be biased on these two platforms because they are more suited towards what the age group would like. Although the content may be different, it may be alright for these two platforms to be oriented towards different age groups because two different generations have different preferences and customs. Therefore, being on different platforms would allow them to access content that they are more used to. 

Virtual assistants have female voices probably because they are viewed as more soothing. They may also follow typical steoreotypes. There are options to change the virtual assitant voice to a male voice, so that is good. 

Algorithms are created on social media platforms in order to keep users on the website. They can find what topics the user is interested in and keep showing posts releated to that topic. 

From the HP Computers video, I learned the importance of ensuring that development can be accessible to everyone. Additionally, lots of testing should be conducted in order to make sure that the product does not have any flaws and is not biased. 

## 5.4 Crowdsourcing

A crowdsourcing idea could be to randomly select computer science students across all AP CSP classes and conduct a survey/test.

With Del Norte, a random sample could again be selected. This ensures a sample that is more representative of the population and can reduce bias. 

A data could be a feedback form that allows different people to enter of what they thought about our project.

## 5.5 Legal and Ethical Concerns

1. Notes about licences: 
* Creative Commons Zero v1.0 Universal: All copyright is waived
* Open Source MIT License: Allowed to use code in a project (even in your private, closed source code), as long as you give credit to the original creator
* Open Source GPL License: Allowed to use code in a project **but only in public projects**
2. From this lesson, I learned about the importance of copyright. We should check the licenses before we use a piece of software. I think Creative Commons is the license that allows the most access to a person's work and that making intellectual work open to people is beneficial because it can help people learn. However, I believe it is also important to allow people to retain their rights to what they have created and that credit should be given to the original creator.

## 5.6 Safe Computing
1. In our projects, we take in people's username and password. It is important to encrypt the passwords so that these information are not accessible by a third party.
2. I'm not a famous person, so I don't have that much information on the internet. However, a lot of platforms that I use probably have various information about me. This can be seen when you sign up on a website and they provide a long list of terms and agreements that probably includes a statement about how they can save your personal information and use it for various purposes.
3. Good passwords include a variety of characters and symbols and also upper and lowercase letters. Multifactor authentication requires multiple authentication methods, which can prevent people from logging in just because they have the password.
4. Symmetric key uses one key for encryption and decryption while assymetric cryptography uses a pair of public and private keys to encrypt and decrypt (different keys are used for the two processes)
5. When we created our fastpages, we needed to generate SSH keys (which I think uses assymetric cryptography because we generated a public and private key)
6. I probably encountered phishing schemes by accidently clicking on a spam email.